# oiiococoa

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Video Village

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

# OpenImageIO

OpenImageIO and all code, documentation, and other materials contained
therein are:

Copyright 2008-2014 Larry Gritz et al. All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of the software's owners nor the names of its
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
  this software without specific prior written permission.
  
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(This is the Modified BSD License)

# boost

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

# ilmbase

Copyright (c) 2006, Industrial Light & Magic, a division of Lucasfilm
Entertainment Company Ltd.  Portions contributed and copyright held by
others as indicated.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with
    the distribution.

  * Neither the name of Industrial Light & Magic nor the names of
    any other contributors to this software may be used to endorse or
    promote products derived from this software without specific prior
    written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# libjpeg

The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose.  This software is provided "AS IS", and you,
its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (C) 1991-1998, Thomas G. Lane.
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to these
conditions:
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then this
README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty notice
unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original files
must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work of
the Independent JPEG Group".
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG code,
not just to the unmodified library.  If you use our work, you ought to
acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company name
in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products derived from
it.  This software may be referred to only as "the Independent JPEG Group's
software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis of
commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
assumed by the product vendor.


ansi2knr.c is included in this distribution by permission of L. Peter Deutsch,
sole proprietor of its copyright holder, Aladdin Enterprises of Menlo Park, CA.
ansi2knr.c is NOT covered by the above copyright and conditions, but instead
by the usual distribution terms of the Free Software Foundation; principally,
that you must include source code if you redistribute it.  (See the file
ansi2knr.c for full details.)  However, since ansi2knr.c is not needed as part
of any program generated from the IJG code, this does not limit you more than
the foregoing paragraphs do.

The Unix configuration script "configure" was produced with GNU Autoconf.
It is copyright by the Free Software Foundation but is freely distributable.
The same holds for its supporting scripts (config.guess, config.sub,
ltconfig, ltmain.sh).  Another support script, install-sh, is copyright
by M.I.T. but is also freely distributable.

It appears that the arithmetic coding option of the JPEG spec is covered by
patents owned by IBM, AT&T, and Mitsubishi.  Hence arithmetic coding cannot
legally be used without obtaining one or more licenses.  For this reason,
support for arithmetic coding has been removed from the free JPEG software.
(Since arithmetic coding provides only a marginal gain over the unpatented
Huffman mode, it is unlikely that very many implementations will support it.)
So far as we are aware, there are no patent restrictions on the remaining
code.

The IJG distribution formerly included code to read and write GIF files.
To avoid entanglement with the Unisys LZW patent, GIF reading support has
been removed altogether, and the GIF writer has been simplified to produce
"uncompressed GIFs".  This technique does not use the LZW algorithm; the
resulting GIF files are larger than usual, but are readable by all standard
GIF decoders.

We are required to state that

    "The Graphics Interchange Format(c) is the Copyright property of
    CompuServe Incorporated.  GIF(sm) is a Service Mark property of
    CompuServe Incorporated."

# libpng

This copy of the libpng notices is provided for your convenience.  In case of
any discrepancy between this copy and the notices in the file png.h that is
included in the libpng distribution, the latter shall prevail.

COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE:

If you modify libpng you may insert additional notices immediately following
this sentence.

This code is released under the libpng license.

libpng versions 1.2.6, August 15, 2004, through 1.5.18, February 6, 2014, are
Copyright (c) 2004, 2006-2014 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.2.5
with the following individual added to the list of Contributing Authors

   Cosmin Truta

libpng versions 1.0.7, July 1, 2000, through 1.2.5 - October 3, 2002, are
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.0.6
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors

   Simon-Pierre Cadieux
   Eric S. Raymond
   Gilles Vollant

and with the following additions to the disclaimer:

   There is no warranty against interference with your enjoyment of the
   library or against infringement.  There is no warranty that our
   efforts or the library will fulfill any of your particular purposes
   or needs.  This library is provided with all faults, and the entire
   risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with
   the user.

libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.6, March 20, 2000, are
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.96,
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:

   Tom Lane
   Glenn Randers-Pehrson
   Willem van Schaik

libpng versions 0.89, June 1996, through 0.96, May 1997, are
Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger
Distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.88,
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:

   John Bowler
   Kevin Bracey
   Sam Bushell
   Magnus Holmgren
   Greg Roelofs
   Tom Tanner

libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.88, January 1996, are
Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.

For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"
is defined as the following set of individuals:

   Andreas Dilger
   Dave Martindale
   Guy Eric Schalnat
   Paul Schmidt
   Tim Wegner

The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors
and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,
including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of
fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.
assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,
or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG
Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject
to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.

2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not
   be misrepresented as being the original source.

3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any
   source or altered source distribution.

The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without
fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to
supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this
source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be
appreciated.


A "png_get_copyright" function is available, for convenient use in "about"
boxes and the like:

   printf("%s",png_get_copyright(NULL));

Also, the PNG logo (in PNG format, of course) is supplied in the
files "pngbar.png" and "pngbar.jpg (88x31) and "pngnow.png" (98x31).

Libpng is OSI Certified Open Source Software.  OSI Certified Open Source is a
certification mark of the Open Source Initiative.

Glenn Randers-Pehrson
glennrp at users.sourceforge.net
February 6, 2014

# libtiff

Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler
Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and 
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
that (i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in
all copies of the software and related documentation, and (ii) the names of
Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any advertising or
publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior written
permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY 
WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  

IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE, AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE 
OF THIS SOFTWARE.

# openexr

Copyright (c) 2006, Industrial Light & Magic, a division of Lucasfilm
Entertainment Company Ltd.  Portions contributed and copyright held by
others as indicated.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with
    the distribution.

  * Neither the name of Industrial Light & Magic nor the names of
    any other contributors to this software may be used to endorse or
    promote products derived from this software without specific prior
    written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# XZ Utils (liblzma)

Different licenses apply to different files in this package. Here
is a rough summary of which licenses apply to which parts of this
package (but check the individual files to be sure!):

  - liblzma is in the public domain.

  - xz, xzdec, and lzmadec command line tools are in the public
    domain unless GNU getopt_long had to be compiled and linked
    in from the lib directory. The getopt_long code is under
    GNU LGPLv2.1+.

  - The scripts to grep, diff, and view compressed files have been
    adapted from gzip. These scripts and their documentation are
    under GNU GPLv2+.

  - All the documentation in the doc directory and most of the
    XZ Utils specific documentation files in other directories
    are in the public domain.

  - Translated messages are in the public domain.

  - The build system contains public domain files, and files that
    are under GNU GPLv2+ or GNU GPLv3+. None of these files end up
    in the binaries being built.

  - Test files and test code in the tests directory, and debugging
    utilities in the debug directory are in the public domain.

  - The extra directory may contain public domain files, and files
    that are under various free software licenses.

You can do whatever you want with the files that have been put into
the public domain. If you find public domain legally problematic,
take the previous sentence as a license grant. If you still find
the lack of copyright legally problematic, you have too many
lawyers.

As usual, this software is provided "as is", without any warranty.

If you copy significant amounts of public domain code from XZ Utils
into your project, acknowledging this somewhere in your software is
polite (especially if it is proprietary, non-free software), but
naturally it is not legally required. Here is an example of a good
notice to put into "about box" or into documentation:

    This software includes code from XZ Utils <http://tukaani.org/xz/>.

The following license texts are included in the following files:

  - COPYING.LGPLv2.1: GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1
  - COPYING.GPLv2: GNU General Public License version 2
  - COPYING.GPLv3: GNU General Public License version 3

Note that the toolchain (compiler, linker etc.) may add some code
pieces that are copyrighted. Thus, it is possible that e.g. liblzma
binary wouldn't actually be in the public domain in its entirety
even though it contains no copyrighted code from the XZ Utils source
package.

If you have questions, don't hesitate to ask the author(s) for more
information.

